README.md, before:

MercadoPago Gem
===============

This is a Ruby client for all the services offered by [MercadoPago](http://www.mercadopago.com). 

You should read the MercadoPago API documentation before you use this
gem. This gem works with hashes and only deals with requests/responses.
That's why you will need an understanding of their services.

You can read the documentation of the MercadoPago API here: 
* Portuguese: https://developers.mercadopago.com/integracao-checkout
* Spanish: https://developers.mercadopago.com/integracion-checkout 

Installation
------------

To install the last version of the gem:

    gem install mercadopago
	
If you are using bundler, add this to your Gemfile:

    gem 'mercadopago'


Access Credentials
------------------

To use this gem, you will need the client_id and client_secret for a
MercadoPago account. 

In any case, this gem will not store this information. In order to find
out your MercadoPago credentials, you can go here:

* Brasil: https://www.mercadopago.com/mlb/ferramentas/aplicacoes
* Argentina: https://www.mercadopago.com/mla/herramientas/aplicaciones

Examples
--------

### Autentication
	
    # Use your credentials
    client_id = '1234'
    client_secret = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'

    access = MercadoPago::Authentication.access_token(client_id, client_secret)
	
The response will be a hash like this one:

    {
      "access_token" => "APP_USR-1234-999999-abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz-999999999",
      "token_type" => "bearer",
      "expires_in" => 10800,
      "scope" => "mclics_advertising offline_access read write",
      "refresh_token" => "TG-abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    }

If the credentials are not correct, you will get a response like this
one:

    {
      "message" => "credenciales inv&aacute;lidas", 
      "error"=>"invalid_client", 
      "status"=>400, 
      "cause"=>[]}

Once you have the access_token you will use it for every call:

### Payment Creation

Your request will need a hash to explain what the payment is for. For
example:

    data = {
      "external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
      "items" => [
        {
          "id" => "Código 123",
          "title" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
          "description" => "Red XL T-Shirt",
          "quantity" => 1,
          "unit_price" => 10.50,
          "currency_id" => "BRL",
          "picture_url" => "http://www.site.com.br/image/123.png"
        }
      ],
      "payer" => {
        "name"=> "João",
        "surname"=> "Silva",
        "email"=> "comprador@email.com.br"
      },
      "back_urls"=> {
        "pending"=> "https://www.site.com.br/pending",
        "success"=> "http://www.site.com.br/success",
        "failure"=> "http://www.site.com.br/failure"
      }
    }

    payment = MercadoPago::Checkout.create_preference(access_token, data)
	
If everything worked out alright, you will get a response like this:

	{
		"payment_methods" => {},
		"init_point" => "https://www.mercadopago.com/mlb/checkout/pay?pref_id=abcdefgh-9999-9999-ab99-999999999999",
		"collector_id" => 123456789,
		"back_urls" => {
			"pending"=> "https://www.site.com.br/pending",
			"success"=> "http://www.site.com.br/success",
			"failure"=> "http://www.site.com.br/failure"
		},
		"sponsor_id" => nil,
		"expiration_date_from" => nil,
		"additional_info" => "",
		"marketplace_fee" => 0,
		"date_created" => "2012-05-07T20:07:52.293-04:00",
		"subscription_plan_id" => nil,
		"id"=> "abcdefgh-9999-9999-ab99-999999999999",
		"expiration_date_to" => nil,
		"expires" => false,
		"external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
		"payer" => {
			"email" => "comprador@email.com.br",
			"name" => "João",
			"surname" => "Silva"
		},
		"items" => [
			{
				"id" => "Código 123",
				"currency_id" => "BRL",
        "title" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
        "description" => "Red XL T-Shirt",
				"picture_url" => "http://www.site.com.br/image/123.png",
				"quantity" => 1,
				"unit_price" => 10.50
			}
		],
		"client_id" => "963",
		"marketplace" => "NONE"
	}

### Payment Status Verification

To check the payment status you will need the payment ID. Only then you
can call the [MercadoPago IPN](https://developers.mercadopago.com/api-ipn).

    # Use o id do pagamento recebido na IPN do MercadoPago.
    payment_id = '987654321'

    notification = MercadoPago::Collection.notification(access_token, payment_id)
  
You will get a response like this one:    

    {
      "collection" => {
        "id" => 987654321,
        "site_id" => "MLB",
        "operation_type" => "regular_payment",
        "order_id" => nil,
        "external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
        "status" => "approved",
        "status_detail" => "approved",
        "payment_type" => "credit_card",
        "date_created" => "2012-05-05T14:22:43Z",
        "last_modified" => "2012-05-05T14:35:13Z",
        "date_approved" => "2012-05-05T14:22:43Z",
        "money_release_date" => "2012-05-19T14:22:43Z",
        "currency_id" => "BRL",
        "transaction_amount" => 10.50,
        "shipping_cost" => 0,
        "total_paid_amount" => 10.50,
        "finance_charge" => 0,
        "net_received_amount" => 0,
        "marketplace" => "NONE",
        "marketplace_fee" => nil,
        "reason" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
        "payer" => {
          "id" => 543219876,
          "first_name" => "João",
          "last_name" => "Silva",
          "nickname" => "JOAOSILVA",
          "phone" => {
            "area_code" => nil,
            "number" => "551122334455",
            "extension" => nil
          },
          "email" => "comprador@email.com.br",
          "identification" => {
            "type" => nil,
            "number" => nil
          }
        },
        "collector" => {
          "id" => 123456789,
          "first_name" => "Manoel",
          "last_name" => "Recebedor",
          "phone" => {
            "area_code" => nil,
            "number" => "1122334455",
            "extension" => nil
          },
          "email" => "recebedor@email.com.br",
          "nickname" => "MANOELRECEBEDOR"
        }
      }
    } 


### Errors

Errors will also be hashes with status code, message and error key.

For example, if you request payment method status for an invalid
operation, you will see something like this:

    {
     "message" => "Resource not found", 
     "error" => "not_found", 
     "status" => 404, 
     "cause" => []
    }

### Copyright

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Changed README.md - Added a changelog section and corrected a few typos.

README.md, after:

MercadoPago Gem
===============

This is a Ruby client for all the services offered by [MercadoPago](http://www.mercadopago.com). 

You should read the MercadoPago API documentation before you use this
gem. This gem works with hashes and only deals with requests/responses.
That's why you will need an understanding of their services.

You can read the documentation of the MercadoPago API here: 
* Portuguese: https://developers.mercadopago.com/integracao-checkout
* Spanish: https://developers.mercadopago.com/integracion-checkout 

Installation
------------

To install the last version of the gem:

    gem install mercadopago
	
If you are using bundler, add this to your Gemfile:

    gem 'mercadopago'


Access Credentials
------------------

To use this gem, you will need the client_id and client_secret for a
MercadoPago account. 

In any case, this gem will not store this information. In order to find
out your MercadoPago credentials, you can go here:

* Brasil: https://www.mercadopago.com/mlb/ferramentas/aplicacoes
* Argentina: https://www.mercadopago.com/mla/herramientas/aplicaciones

Examples
--------

### Authentication
	
    # Use your credentials
    client_id = '1234'
    client_secret = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'

    access = MercadoPago::Authentication.access_token(client_id, client_secret)
	
The response will be a hash like this one:

    {
      "access_token" => "APP_USR-1234-999999-abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz-999999999",
      "token_type" => "bearer",
      "expires_in" => 10800,
      "scope" => "mclics_advertising offline_access read write",
      "refresh_token" => "TG-abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
    }

If the credentials are not correct, you will get a response like this
one:

    {
      "message" => "credenciales inv&aacute;lidas", 
      "error"=>"invalid_client", 
      "status"=>400, 
      "cause"=>[]}

Once you have the access_token you will use it for every call:

### Payment Creation

Your request will need a hash to explain what the payment is for. For
example:

    data = {
      "external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
      "items" => [
        {
          "id" => "Código 123",
          "title" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
          "description" => "Red XL T-Shirt",
          "quantity" => 1,
          "unit_price" => 10.50,
          "currency_id" => "BRL",
          "picture_url" => "http://www.site.com.br/image/123.png"
        }
      ],
      "payer" => {
        "name"=> "João",
        "surname"=> "Silva",
        "email"=> "comprador@email.com.br"
      },
      "back_urls"=> {
        "pending"=> "https://www.site.com.br/pending",
        "success"=> "http://www.site.com.br/success",
        "failure"=> "http://www.site.com.br/failure"
      }
    }

    payment = MercadoPago::Checkout.create_preference(access_token, data)
	
If everything worked out alright, you will get a response like this:

	{
		"payment_methods" => {},
		"init_point" => "https://www.mercadopago.com/mlb/checkout/pay?pref_id=abcdefgh-9999-9999-ab99-999999999999",
		"collector_id" => 123456789,
		"back_urls" => {
			"pending"=> "https://www.site.com.br/pending",
			"success"=> "http://www.site.com.br/success",
			"failure"=> "http://www.site.com.br/failure"
		},
		"sponsor_id" => nil,
		"expiration_date_from" => nil,
		"additional_info" => "",
		"marketplace_fee" => 0,
		"date_created" => "2012-05-07T20:07:52.293-04:00",
		"subscription_plan_id" => nil,
		"id"=> "abcdefgh-9999-9999-ab99-999999999999",
		"expiration_date_to" => nil,
		"expires" => false,
		"external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
		"payer" => {
			"email" => "comprador@email.com.br",
			"name" => "João",
			"surname" => "Silva"
		},
		"items" => [
			{
				"id" => "Código 123",
				"currency_id" => "BRL",
        "title" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
        "description" => "Red XL T-Shirt",
				"picture_url" => "http://www.site.com.br/image/123.png",
				"quantity" => 1,
				"unit_price" => 10.50
			}
		],
		"client_id" => "963",
		"marketplace" => "NONE"
	}

### Payment Status Verification

To check the payment status you will need the payment ID. Only then you
can call the [MercadoPago IPN](https://developers.mercadopago.com/api-ipn).

    # Use the payment ID received on the IPN.
    payment_id = '987654321'

    notification = MercadoPago::Collection.notification(access_token, payment_id)
  
You will get a response like this one:    

    {
      "collection" => {
        "id" => 987654321,
        "site_id" => "MLB",
        "operation_type" => "regular_payment",
        "order_id" => nil,
        "external_reference" => "OPERATION-ID-1234",
        "status" => "approved",
        "status_detail" => "approved",
        "payment_type" => "credit_card",
        "date_created" => "2012-05-05T14:22:43Z",
        "last_modified" => "2012-05-05T14:35:13Z",
        "date_approved" => "2012-05-05T14:22:43Z",
        "money_release_date" => "2012-05-19T14:22:43Z",
        "currency_id" => "BRL",
        "transaction_amount" => 10.50,
        "shipping_cost" => 0,
        "total_paid_amount" => 10.50,
        "finance_charge" => 0,
        "net_received_amount" => 0,
        "marketplace" => "NONE",
        "marketplace_fee" => nil,
        "reason" => "River Plate T-Shirt",
        "payer" => {
          "id" => 543219876,
          "first_name" => "João",
          "last_name" => "Silva",
          "nickname" => "JOAOSILVA",
          "phone" => {
            "area_code" => nil,
            "number" => "551122334455",
            "extension" => nil
          },
          "email" => "comprador@email.com.br",
          "identification" => {
            "type" => nil,
            "number" => nil
          }
        },
        "collector" => {
          "id" => 123456789,
          "first_name" => "Manoel",
          "last_name" => "Recebedor",
          "phone" => {
            "area_code" => nil,
            "number" => "1122334455",
            "extension" => nil
          },
          "email" => "recebedor@email.com.br",
          "nickname" => "MANOELRECEBEDOR"
        }
      }
    } 

### Errors

Errors will also be hashes with status code, message and error key.

For example, if you request payment method status for an invalid
operation, you will see something like this:

    {
     "message" => "Resource not found", 
     "error" => "not_found", 
     "status" => 404, 
     "cause" => []
    }

### Tests

This gem has tests for a few methods. To check if it is working properly, just run:

    rake test

### Changelog

1.0.1 (thanks etagwerker)
Added client interface, renamed "Mercadopago" to "MercadoPago", translated project summary to English and added tests for a few methods.

0.0.1
First release. It's possible authenticate with the MercadoPago APIs, create payments and check payment status.


### Copyright

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
